---
layout: default
title: GitHub Desktop and GitHub Pages
nav_order: 4
description: "GitHub"
---

# GitHub Desktop

Git and GitHub
A quick aside: git and GitHub are not the same thing. Git is an open-source, version control tool created in 2005 by developers working on the Linux operating system; GitHub is a company founded in 2008 that makes tools which integrate with git. You do not need GitHub to use git, but you cannot use GitHub without using git. There are many other alternatives to GitHub, such as GitLab, BitBucket, and “host-your-own” solutions such as gogs and gittea. All of these are referred to in git-speak as “remotes”, and all are completely optional. You do not need to use a remote to use git, but it will make sharing your code with others easier.
source: https://product.hubspot.com/blog/git-and-github-tutorial-for-beginners

## 1. visit: http://git-scm.com/book/en/v2

2. watch: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w3jLJU7DT5E
        https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PQsJR8ci3J0


## 2. What is Git?
   
    To understand GitHub, first there is need to have an understanding of Git. 
    Git is a version control (similar to Google Docs, but better, where you can keep track of the changes made by different people at different time) system that keep track of the changes in your computer files and you may work together with multiple people. Although it is designed for software development, you can still use it to keep track of your personal files.


## 3.  Why GitHub?

    When developers create something (an app, for example)they make constant changes to the code, releasing new versions up to and after the first official release.

    Version control systems keep these revisions straight, storing the modifications in a central repository. This allows developers to easily collaborate, as they can download a new version of the software, make changes, and upload the newest revision. Every developer can see these new changes, download them, and contribute.

    Github is one of the online project hosting that use Git. This is also the services that are going to host Website, known as Github pages that uses Jekyll, at zero cost.


## 4. How does it work?
   visti: https://pages.github.com/

## 5. Instalation of GitHub Desktop

1. Visit the download page for GitHub Desktop link:https://desktop.github.com/ 
2. Click Download for Windows
3. Click Run and save file.
4. Install.
5. In your computer’s Downloads folder, double-click GitHub Desktop.
6. GitHub Desktop will launch after installation is complete.
7. In next step create GitHub Pages User Account.
8. Once the GitHub Pages User Account is verified you may Authorise GitHub Pages. This window pop up automatically during GitHub Desktop account creation process.

# Creating new repository in GitHub

1. In the upper-right corner of any page in GitHub, use the  drop-down menu, and select New repository.
2. Drop-down with option to create a new repository
Use the Owner drop-down menu, and select the account you want to own the repository.
3. Use Owner drop-down menu
Type a name for your repository and an optional description. If you're creating a user or organization site, your repository must be named <user>.github.io or <organization>.github.io. 
4. Create repository field
5. Choose a repository visibility - Public
6. Select Initialize this repository with a README.
7. Click Create repository.
8. Push a branch to GitHub
    Push the commit in your branch to your new GitHub repo. This allows other people to see the changes you've made. If they're approved by the repository's owner, the changes can then be merged into the primary branch.

    To push changes onto a new branch on GitHub, you'll want to run git push origin yourbranchname. GitHub will automatically create the branch for you on the remote repository:

"origin" word is that when you clone a remote repository to your local machine, git creates an alias for you. In nearly all cases this alias is called "origin." It's essentially shorthand for the remote repository's URL. So, to push your changes to the remote repository, you could've used either the command: git push git@github.com:git/git.git yourbranchname or git push origin yourbranchname

If you refresh the GitHub page, you'll see note saying a branch with your name has just been pushed into the repository. You can also click the 'branches' link to see your branch listed there.

9. Click the green button in the screenshot above. Click pull request!

visit: https://training.github.com/downloads/github-git-cheat-sheet/
